
\section{Creating Maven project from the archetype}

For this task, we have created an archetype for you to base on, which means you
don't need to manually input shared information, e.g., configurations for the
Maven repositories, compile plug-in, etc. The tutorial for Homework 0 might also
be helpful for you when you are creating a Maven project.

\begin{enumerate}

\item The first thing you should do is to inform m2e where to find the
archetypes. Open your Eclipse's \textbf{Preferences} window, and navigate to
\textbf{Maven} $\rightarrow$ \textbf{Archetypes}, and click \textbf{Add Remote
Catalog\ldots}. (See Figure \ref{fig:archetype-01-catalog})

\begin{figure}[t]
\centering
\includegraphics[scale=0.3]{archetype-01-catalog}
\caption{Configuring Maven catalog\label{fig:archetype-01-catalog}}
\end{figure}

\item Type the following URL into the \textbf{Catalog File} field.

\begin{verbatim}
http://ziy.github.com/hw1-archetype/repository/archetype-catalog.xml
\end{verbatim}

Optionally, you can add a \textbf{Description} for this catalog, for example
``Course Catalog''. See Figure \ref{fig:archetype-02-add}. Then click
\textbf{OK} on the \textbf{Remote Archetype Catalog} window and another
\textbf{OK} on the \textbf{Preferences} window.

\begin{figure}[t]
\centering
\includegraphics[scale=0.3]{archetype-02-add}
\caption{Adding a remote catalog\label{fig:archetype-02-add}}
\end{figure}

\item Now you can follow almost the same steps to create a Maven project hosted
on GitHub, you can refer to Homework 0 to find out how to create an empty
project on GitHub, and how the project can be imported to Eclipse. Since we have
created the archetype for you, remember to unselect \textbf{Create a simple
project (skip archetype selction)} (see Figure \ref{fig:archetype-03-new}). Then
click \textbf{Next}.
 
\begin{figure}[t]
\centering
\includegraphics[scale=0.3]{archetype-03-new}
\caption{Unselecting ``Create a simple project''\label{fig:archetype-03-new}}
\end{figure}

\item Here you can select ``Course Catalog'' (or other names you specified in
the previous step) or ``All Catalogs'' in the drop-down menu for
\textbf{Catalog}. Then, type in ``hw1-archetype'' (without quotes) in the \textbf{Filter}
field. While you are typing, you will find the progress bar indicates you that
it is busy ``Retrieving archetypes''. Select the archetype listed below, and
click next to continue. See Figure \ref{fig:archetype-04-filter}. Note that
since we will continue improving the archetype or fixing bugs if any, the
version number cannot different from what you see in the figure.

\begin{figure}[t]
\centering
\includegraphics[scale=0.3]{archetype-04-filter}
\caption{Filtering the archetype you want to base on\label{fig:archetype-04-filter}}
\end{figure}

\item In the next window, you are asked to specify the \textbf{Group Id} and
\textbf{Artifact Id}. Similar to Homework 0, the Group Id is

\begin{center}
\textbf{edu.cmu.lti.11791.f13.hw1}
\end{center}

and Artifact Id is

\begin{center}
\textbf{hw1-ID}
\end{center}

with ID being your Andrew Id. Then click \textbf{Finish}. See Figure
\ref{fig:archetype-05-param}.

\begin{figure}[t]
\centering
\includegraphics[scale=0.3]{archetype-05-param}
\caption{Specifying artifact parameters\label{fig:archetype-05-param}}
\end{figure}

\item Now you have a new Maven project created from the archetype, which means
there will be no extra steps to manually edit the \verb|pom.xml| file on your
own. Instead the archetype includes most information Maven needs to execute
goals.

The only information that Maven doesn't know about from archetype or the
information we have typed to create the project is SCM. You need to edit the
\texttt{pom.xml} file to type in the SCM information of your GitHub repository
for Homework 1 as you did in Homework 0.

\end{enumerate}

You can see that we have included

\begin{itemize}

\item and two files in the \texttt{src/main/resources/inputData} folder,
\texttt{q001.txt} and \texttt{q002.txt}, which correspond to two sample input
files.

\item the \texttt{pom.xml}. You can go to the \textbf{Dependencies} tab after
you double-click the pom file, and you will be able to see all the UIMA SDK
packages have been added to your Maven project by the archetype, and they will
be stored on your local Maven repository (e.g., \texttt{~/.m2/repositories}).
You will not need to follow the official instruction to uncompressed the SDK
package and specify the \verb|UIMA_HOME| as your environment parameter unless
you want to execute a UIMA program outside your project.

\end{itemize}

Your implementation starts here.

\begin{qa}

\item[Q1] I found a bug in the archetype and I know how to fix it. How should I
proceed to patch the archetype to help many others who may suffer from this? 

\item[A1] The archetype project is also hosted on GitHub at
\url{https://github.com/ziy/software-engineering-hw1-archetype}, and you can
send a pull request to me regarding any issue.

\end{qa}
